for years
i've been feeling frustrated because as
a religious historian
i i've become acutely aware that of the
centrality of compassion
in all the major world faiths
every single one of them has evolved
their
own version of what's been called the
golden rule
sometimes it comes in a positive version
always treat
all others as you'd like to be treated
yourself
and equally important is the negative
version
don't do to others what you would not
like them to
do to you look into your own heart
discover what it is that gives you pain
and then refuse under any circumstance
whatsoever
to inflict that pain on anybody else
and people have uh emphasized the
importance of compassion
not just because it sounds good but
because
it works people have found that when
they have implemented the golden rule as
confucius said
all day and every day not just a
question of doing your good deed for the
day and then
returning to a life of greed and egotism
uh but to do it all day and every day
you dethrone yourself from the center of
your world
put another there and you transcend
yourself
uh and it brings you into the presence
of what's being called god
nirvana ramen thou
something that goes beyond what we know
in our ego-bound existence but you know
you'd never know it a lot of the time
that this was so central to the
religious life because with a few
uh wonderful exceptions very often when
religious people come together religious
leaders come together they're
arguing about abstruse doctrines
uh or uttering uh council of hatred
or invading against uh homosexuality or
something of that sort
often people don't really want to be
compassionate uh i sometimes
see when i'm speaking to a congregation
of religious people
a sort of mutinous expression crossing
their faces because
people often want to be right instead
um and that that of course defeats the
object of the exercise now why
was i so grateful to ted because
um because it they took me
very gently uh from my bookline study
and brought me into the 21st century
enabling me to speak
to a much much wider audience than i
could have ever conceived
because i feel an urgency about this
if we don't manage to implement the
golden rule
globally so that we treat all peoples
wherever and whoever they may be as
though they were as important as
ourselves
i doubt that we'll have a viable world
to hand on to the next generation
the task of our time one of the great
tasks of our time
is to build a global society as i said
that
where people can live together in peace
and the religions
that should be making a major
contribution are instead
seen as part of the problem
and of course it's not just
religious people who believe in the
golden rule this is the source of all
morality
this imaginative act of empathy putting
yourself
in the place of another and
so we have a choice it seems to me
we can either go on uh bringing out or
emphasizing the dogmatic
and intolerant aspects of our faith
or we can um go back
to the rabbis rabbi hillel
uh the older contemporary of jesus who
when
asked by a pagan uh to uh sum up the
whole of jewish teaching while he stood
on one leg
said that which is hateful to you do not
do to your neighbor
that is the torah and everything else is
only commentary
and the rabbis and the early fathers of
the church who said that
any interpretation of scripture that
bred hatred and disdain
was illegitimate and we need to revive
that spirit and it's not just going to
happen
because a spirit of love wafts us down
we have to make this happen
and we can do it with the modern
communications that ted
has introduced already i've been
tremendously heartened at the response
of all our partners
in singapore uh we have the
uh a group are used going to use the
charter to
heal divisions recently uh sort of
sprung up in singaporean society
and some members of the parliament want
to implement it
uh politically uh in malaysia there's
uh there's going to be an art exhibition
in which leading artists are going to
to be taking uh people
young people and showing them that
compassion also lies at the root of all
art in uh throughout europe
uh the muslim communities are holding
events and discussions
uh discussing the centrality of
compassion
in islam and in all faiths but it can't
stop there it can't stop with the launch
religious teaching this is where we've
gone so wrong concentrating solely on
believing abstruse doctrines
religious teaching must be always lead
to action
and uh i intend to work on this till my
dying day
and um i i want to continue with our
partners
uh to uh do two things educate
uh and and stimulate
compassionate thinking education because
people with so dropped out of compassion
people often think it simply means
feeling sorry for
somebody but of course you don't
understand compassion
if you're just going to think about it
you also have to do it
i want them to get the media involved
because the media are crucial
in helping to dissolve some of the
stereotypical views we have of other
people
which are dividing us from one another
uh same
applies uh to educators i'd like youth
to get a sense of the dynamism the
dynamic and challenge of a compassionate
lifestyle
and also see that it demands acute
intelligence
not just a gooey feeling i'd like to
call upon scholars to explore
the compassionate theme in their
own and in other people's traditions and
perhaps above all
to encourage a sensitivity about
uncompassionate speaking so that because
people have this charter
whether whatever their beliefs or lack
of them
they feel empowered to challenge
uncompassionate speech disdainful
remarks
from their religious leaders their
political leaders from the captains of
industry
because we can change the world we have
the ability
uh i i would never have thought of
putting the charter online
i was still stuck in the old world of a
whole bunch of boffins sitting together
in a room
and issuing yet another arcane statement
and ted introduced me to a whole new way
of thinking
and presenting ideas because that's what
is so wonderful about ted
in this room uh all this expertise
uh if we joined it all together
we can change the world and of course
the problems are in super
sometimes seem insuperable but i'd just
like to quote
uh fit finish at the end with a
reference to a british author
an oxford author whom i don't speak
quote very often
c s lewis but he wrote one thing that
stuck in my mind when
ever since i read it when i was a
schoolgirl it's in his book the four
loves
he said that uh where he distinguished
between erotic love when two people
gaze spellbound into each other's eyes
and then he compared that to friendship
when two people stand side by side as it
were shoulder to shoulder
with their eyes fixed on a common goal
we don't have to fall in love with
each other but we can become friends
uh and it's i am convinced i felt it
very
strongly uh during our deliberations at
vevi
uh that when people of all different
persuasions uh come together
uh working side by side for a common
goal
differences meld away and we learn
uh amity uh and we learn to live
to live together and to get to know one
another thank you very much